---
layout: post
title:  "How Children Learn and Think"
date:   2016-10-25 06:11:00 +0100
categories: education-theory
---

David Wood is an advocate of Bruner's theory of cognitive development in which social aspects play a key role. His book attempts to synthesise the theories of Paiget, Vygotsky and Bruner.

**Introduction**

- Skinner: Shaping behaviour (to produce a reinforced response)
- Intrinsic motivation (to do an activity for it's own sake)
- Chomsky and lingustic development ~ outside of "stages of cognitive development" defined by Piaget. Holds a nativist view that children are born with inate structures of language (verbs and nouns, etc).
- Piaget ~ concept of readiness (linking to his educational stages)
- Bruner ~ processes not stages (differ from person to person) and children can learn anything if it is structured correctly (do not have to wait to be "ready")
- Vygotsky ~ learning through instruction

*Thought as internalised action*

**Piaget**

- Perception involves activity (action not talk)
- Pre-operational (cannot think about something logically, and cannot appreciate another viewpoint than their own (egocentric))
- Basis for understanding is constructed by the child (can be taught a response to a question but lacks understanding)
- Readiness is fully in the hands of the child (and they go through set stages).

**Vygotsky**

- Learning through instruction (differs from Piaget)
- Readiness is what the child knows AND what they can do with the help of a more knowledgable other.
- Development is both cultural and down to more mature members who practive specific knowledge.
- "Collective monologues" are an important part of cognitive development leading to inner-speech.
- Did not conduct research in to adult cognition and development theory (only children)

**Information Processing Capabilities**

Concept of *organised memory*.

**Processing Speed**

How much information a child can hold in *working memory*. This grows as the child gets older, and contributes to many of the problems younger children have with Piaget's experiments.

**Principles of Instruction** - John Anderson's ACT-R Cognitive theory
- Provide instruction in a problem-solving context
- Immediate response to learner errors
- Reminders of learning goal
- Support successive approximations to competent performance
