---
layout: post
title:  "Taxonomy Ideas"
date:   2016-11-09 16:31:00 +0100
categories: programming
---

The vast array of educational programming tools available suggests the need for a taxonomy. This will hopefully help categorise these tools and combine information on each tool.

- Programming principles
	- *Categorise tools based on what programming concepts they teach.*
		- Conditionals
		- Procedures
		- Variables
		- Overloading
		- Loops
		- Message-passing
- Programming paradigms
	- *Categorise based on the programming paradigms the tool covers.*
		- Functional (declerative, telling the computer what is needed).
		- Imperative (explicitly telling the computer what to do).
			- Object orientation
		- Sequential
			- Concurrency brought about when blocks of instructions execute at the same time (race conditions?)
		- Concurrent
		- Constraint programming
		- Programming by demonstration (PBD)
		- Object-driven programming
			- Assigning code to specific objects individually.
- Syntax
	- *Categorise based on the syntactic nature of tool.*
		- Visual
		- Textual
		- Mixture of both
			- Can be decomposed further in to language features.
- Robotics
	- *Categorise based on tools that can be used to program robots.*
		- Levels of complexity.
- Age Range
	- *Categorise based on suitibility for young children.*
		- Use tool attributes identified as being unsuitible for young children (lots of text, mouse movement, immediate feedback, etc).
- Bricolage
	- *Categorise based on bottom-up vs top-down coding structure.*
		- Ease of being able to plan a system in advance.
		- Link to task difficulty.
- Learning paradigms
	- *Categorise based on tasks that require specific instructions to complete.*
		- Instructionism (tools that give specific tasks).
			- Could extend to include suitible of provided learning materials (lesson plans, etc).
		- Constructionsm (tools that allow users freedom to construct).
